my place at Jesus College is confirmed
we now have a bike to freshers I've got
a super mission here today on my way
starting site tandem some supervision
work rocks the lab coat the lab goggles
[Music]
Racing this move a time to go to say
it's baby take on hand-washing
play a game of cheat and apply holidays
snowing in Chapel six weeks time
hyah so I thought I'd do a video
reviewing and kind of like reflecting on
my first term at Cambridge I've been
home a week now and obviously everyone
at homes been saying well how should the
first time at uni mean I've like
honestly you don't understand how great
a time I have had it's been so good I
thought I'd go over what I've done this
term the good the bad cuz you know it's
not perfect there is there's always
things that can be refined like the
amount of surveys that I've been sent
going can you just review this lecture
of course and I'm just like I don't have
time you of all people should know I
didn't have time because you are the
ones who are setting rework yeah yeah
but yeah basically thought I would kind
of summarize first term let's go
so kind of starting off with the main
thing that I went there for the work
obviously I had lectures each week the 6
9 a.m. lectures a week why not not that
enjoyable I must say they had to be done
there and once you get into the swing of
it each week you you forget what it's
like to have a Saturday lion
I found the overall content of the
lectures quite interesting I chose four
modules to do which I'm doing for the
whole of first year which are physics
chemistry Earth Sciences and maths a
which is the easier option the other
maths course is just an accelerated
version so you will cover more content
but you sit the same exam at the end
that I was like let's not push it let's
go for the easy one anyway I was glad I
chose that actually because mass has
been going okay so far a lot of it is
just a level stuff that I did in my
further maths a-level maths is probably
the module that I'm most confident in at
the moment
a module that I'm really not liking is
earth sciences but the whole point of
first year is working out which area
interests you most and I think it's just
a learning thing that I now know that
geology is not I want to do I really
don't have an interest in rocks at all
and I've told my director of studies
that I'm not liking earth sciences and I
think she gets it she said it might turn
around to be fair I've only done one
term the amount of new material that you
have to learn is yeah cuz with my other
modules maths physics of chemistry it's
kind of building on a level stuff but
earth sciences I haven't done any of it
before physics and chemistry rather
annoyingly I'm enjoying them both
equally and first-term I was thinking
right well I'm gonna start thinking
which do I prefer which might I prefer
to take next year although I find
chemistry easier than physics for sure I
like them I enjoy them both the same
they don't really like you to take
chemistry and physics and second year
I've got two more terms to sort it out
and then we can see will help final
exams go supervisions
are actually amazing I don't know what
I'd do without sue
if I'm honest with you sometimes after
lectures I'm just a bit lost and then I
go to a supervision and I asked my
supervisor and they make it all clear
it's like a light bulb and it's actually
great a shout out to all my supervisors
cuz they have to be fair they've all
been pretty great supervisors my super
visions are an hour long they're with me
and another students taking the same
module I've got two supervisors who are
PhD students and two supervisors who are
just Fellows of the college or another
college they will set you problems each
week to work through or essays in the
case of Earth Sciences and they'll
market give you feedback on it and an
industry provision you can like ask
anything which anything you don't
understand in lectures I have spent a
fair bit of time in the library this
term some people don't like it as a
working space I love the library as a
working space I find I'm really
productive productive in the library
when I say the library I'm talking about
the Jesus College Library because there
are a lot of libraries in Cambridge as
you might imagine the library has
different rooms for different types of
study for example there's a group study
room where you can talk and work
together which is really useful because
at Jesus there's at least 20 people on
my course and it means we can all work
together on the problems that we've been
set by our supervisors but you've got to
make sure you you're actually studying
and not not chatting don't just chat
that is very bad I probably work best in
silent study there's a special room in
the library for a complete silent study
like don't talk at all and then the main
library open area is what it's silent
but you can get the odd whisper getting
to grips with time management this term
has been interesting the first few weeks
I had hardly any work there's a complete
well and I was thinking oh god what is
going to come for me and then sure
enough like a week later
what glowed when I kept up with it
everyone managed to keep up with it and
I think we all kind of supported each
other in that I had a few late nights
staying up late doing work which I don't
enjoy and definitely aren't necessary
when you manage your time properly first
Suns been like a warm-up so second term
although the workload is gonna stay the
same and the amount of work is a lot you
get set a little work that's just how it
is it's the same for every subject now I
know about managing my time well I'm
ready for second term and do my work
like a week in advance just just do you
wait for me next term the other things
talk about is stress I did get stressed
in first term I think it's just natural
everyone got a little bit stressed in
the first term but you shouldn't get
stressed it's the point I'm trying to
make if you manage your time well and
you do your work in advance there is
nothing to stress over there are some
point parts of term what everyone's
suddenly like the amount of work is a
lot that you couldn't you're capable of
getting it done so what's the issue they
make it sound so easy
I need to take my advice more and not
stress
societies and extracurriculars stuff
outside of academic work has been fab
this term I've packed first term
literally full I've been doing some
coaxing I have joined the Jesus College
Boat Club I was assigned to Cru this
term that final grace was oh so good I
was shouting I mean you're not supposed
to shout actually like you're supposed
to like vary your tone of voice or
whatnot and just speak really sternly
and you've got a microphone there really
is no need to shout but the excitement
just makes you want to scream it your
crew like who would have thought though
that I would be getting up at the crack
of dawn voluntarily I am impressed at
myself in the mornings and I had to get
off a cook thing I was just cursing like
why why did I decide to do this but
after the outing I'd get to lecture some
I think I've been so productive this
morning and I've had actually a really
fun outing I would thoroughly recommend
it anyone considering taking up Cox Inc
I'm excited to continue next time
they'll be redoing crews and stuff like
that but hopefully I'll be a crew that
they'll let me cooks I'm definitely not
the greatest don't cook thing but I've
got enthusiasm and that is all that
matters
I've also taken up dance sport I've been
doing ballroom and latin dancing it's
been really fun I've joined the beat
Guinness team it's actually great
exercise the first competition of turn
was really good unfortunately I missed
the second competition of term which was
in Nottingham I was so excited but I was
ill that weekend sad times but what can
you do my dance shoes
oh I just love wiring well they my feet
do kill like dancing in heels is painful
and I feel like I'm really like picking
up a new skill it's really frustrating
because I love cook thing and I love my
ballroom and latin dancing and I said to
myself at the star first term right
you're gonna take both up and at the end
of first term you decide which one you
want to continue to next term
but I've got so invested in both of them
that I could not give either of them up
so we're just gonna get extra organized
next term so we can continue everything
and still keep up with my work it'll be
fine
so the social life side of things people
have this view of Cambridge there
there's no time for anything but
studying and that is absolutely not true
I've got just so much well I just talked
about all my extracurriculars and stuff
I've made so many new friends this term
and it's been great honestly I was so
worried before arriving so I think
everyone lots of people are before going
to uni they're like oh my god I'm gonna
make no friends I'm gonna be all by
myself full term like all my family
wouldn't even on the first day us like
please but I have made great friends and
like I'm not the most confident person I
can't be shy but you just got to think
everyone wants to make friends and
that's why it's so easy to make friends
because everyone is a frowny-face
everyone will have a chat to you
everyone who lives in my staircase is
all very nice which is good I mean
imagine it'd be a bit of a nightmare if
you had to like live with people who
weren't your cup of tea
mostly I've made friends with in Jesus
College next turn so I want to change I
want to make friends outside of Jesus
College at other colleges because you do
interact with people from other colleges
at what labs in the case of Natural
Sciences and you also see people from
other colleges at lectures a great place
for socializing is CAF where you eat
your dinner at Jesus or a lot of people
go
some people cook which is fair enough I
have done very little cooking so
basically always a calf every evening
and I know even if like I'm not going
down to CAF with people I know I know
when I get there there will be people
that I know that I can go sit with and
talk to so it's really nice you'll never
you're never alone that's for sure
it can get a bit of an issue actually to
be honest like when you've got work to
do but then you've got your friends like
literally downstairs next door thirty
seconds away well you can go you go chat
see it's like it's distraction from your
work not gonna lie I've also been to
quite a few formals which are like
three-course nice sophisticated dinners
you turn up in your gown
yeah Jesus formals are really really
nice they could value their 7 pounds for
a three-course meal that's amazing and
the food is good there is literally no
downside and yeah that's the nice time
for socializing in a more formal setting
though there are drinking games like AI
Cambridge that's a single penny where if
you put a penny in someone's drink can
they have to down it you're not supposed
to do that formals but people do yeah
it's good fun it's good fun
there's also swaps I've only been to one
swap this time basically you go out to a
restaurant with a large group this what
I went to was a novices rowing swap with
Jesus and keys another college it wasn't
great the food at the restaurant we went
to I paid a tenner which is more than a
Pullman and the food was not on the same
level but it was nice gal College meet
new people you like bring your own
alcohol along and there's a lot of
drinking games it swaps now like while
we're on to drinking like I had a bit of
alcohol I feel like I was quite
responsible for at turn I've never been
like a big drinker I have bit like I
like to have fun and alcohol can often
be fun to have there was definitely peer
pressure I don't feel like I gave in to
peer pressure but unfortunately like
peer pressure is a thing and I think you
just get it at all universities it's
often unintentional like people don't
mean to pressure other --zz into
drinking but when everyone else is I
think people feel pressured into
drinking but now I feel like I knew my
limit
most of the time you have I mean its
first time at uni you're gonna go out
you're gonna have fun you're gonna have
a little bit of alcohol and hey look you
can't go out at Cambridge you're not in
your room studying the whole time there
are clubs in Cambridge you can go out
you can have fun at those clubs and then
come back for you no names
it's actually great in Cambridge because
the kind of whole timings of like going
out and
and whatnot it's kind of shifted so that
you go out earlier and then you leave
and then you get back earlier so you
have more sleep before your 9:00 a.m.
lecture the next day it's actually
what's not great it's like an unspoken
agreement that everyone's got to be at
lecture the next morning so you can't
like it can't be too crazy but I mean I
don't think people go to Cambridge for
like the party life you go to get an
excellent degree I went out a lot during
freshers week but then after that I only
went out like a few times during
downtime and then at the end of term
because you just can't fit it in
especially when you're doing lots of
extracurriculars although having said
that there are people who go out
clubbing multiple times a week or four
at turn and they're keeping up with
their work fine and there's people who
don't go clubbing at all so it's
literally up to you you have what you
make time for there is time to chat and
chill you can relax
I think you got to maybe remind yourself
sometimes to relax
I definitely well I think I definitely
relaxed enough I mean I got my work done
but I knew I think I knew when it was
time to stop working and just chill for
the evening with your friends
moving on to living my room has been
literally accident I love it it's just
so warm it's a cozy it's massive and
I've gotten on sweets
I've really made it my own I can't wait
to get back I'm taking back photos and
stuff to hang on the wall next term and
it is a pain I have to clear it out at
the end of term and then I've got to
take my bad stuff back next term and
read Eket out and whatnot but I'm back
in my bedroom at home you can see much
you'll see this lovely pink wall so the
food
Jesus is honestly not bad I class myself
as quite a fussy eater I'm better than I
used to be when I was younger but I'm
still not that adventurous I don't like
things like pasta now that you might
think oh my god she's a student and she
doesn't like pasta at CAF there's
usually always an option that I will eat
the fact that they make your food for
you it's just it's great because cooking
takes time and to be honest I don't I
have not had time for cooking in first
time sometimes I'm like ah maybe this
isn't quite to my taste or I miss my
mom's cooking but oh no it's better than
I expected and I'm not going hungry
that's for sure we also got take away
every now and again sometimes I went out
for meals with other people at Jesus
like to Nando's love Nando's I didn't
cook though I will admit all right the
most cooking I did was waffles which I
mean my awful machine has got a lot of
use in first time although Jesus kalisch
brunch every Saturday they have brunch
and that was honestly the highlight of
my week obviously I'd have Saturday
morning lectures 9:00 till 11:00 now get
back in time for brunch there's usually
well there's pretty much always a queue
for brunch because it's that popular and
can get your nice scrambled egg you
toast your bacon your Falls your
pancakes another great thing about
living at Jesus is the cleaner shout out
to Maria the cleaner of my staircase
she's honestly fab she will come in and
clean your bathroom for you once a week
your bins over was emptied for you it's
honestly a dream it's a dream like
they're just look after you so well
Jesus College my mom was worried about
me when I was going off to uni like is
she independent enough for this like
can't you look after herself but to be
fair like I haven't had that hard a time
of it I've had my meals cooked for me my
rooms cleaned the thing I have taken on
is laundry I am a laundry master now I'm
honestly so proud of myself doing
laundry this term I fit in the laundry
room and there's been other people who
are like why do I put this washing
powder and stuff so I'm not the only one
I'm not the only one so yeah I think
that kind of rounds up what I've got up
to him first time I've enjoyed it I've
been set a lot of work for over
Christmas I want to review everything
I've done in first term so I'm going
over going into second term with like a
good base I am going to be taking a bit
of time to relax that's needed I have
been sleeping a lot so it's going back
this past week and just taking it easy
I had a Saturday job while I was at
sixth form and I'm back doing that
part-time work over the holiday but like
only a couple of days a week so it's
manageable I am pumped for Christmas so
ready for Christmas can't wait it's good
to be home it's good to be home I'm
thinking next video I might try out a
Q&A I mean if you have any questions
you'd like to ask it can literally be
back and of thinking me about uni it can
be about my life just get to know me
comment any questions you have for me
down below or I will do an Instagram
post and you can comment on that just
send me your questions this Q&A and I
will answer them in a video get back to
you but anyone else has just started uni
I hope your first terms have also gone
well and for those doing a-levels GCC's
or whatever you're studying I hope you
studies are going well too
thank you for watching like the video
subscribe for more of me and I'll be
doing more vlogs next term go lots of
exciting video
time forever the holiday say subscribe
for those see soon bye